“It is the privacy that let us become and be ourselves, let us imagine and explore. The world without privacy is less empathetic, less human.” - Tim Cook, CEO of Apple

I spent the last two days in Washington, DC at the IAPP’s Global Privacy Summit. Tim Cook opened the conference, and I had a chance to check out what other companies are doing in the privacy arena as well as connect with privacy officers and practitioners. 

I wanted to share some of my highlights:

TODAY: Compliance lens – majority of the attendees were either lawyers, compliance officers or regulators who see privacy as a compliance and risk function. During a panel discussion on privacy metrics for performance, Cisco CPO shared a survey that most privacy related metrics are around compliance and risk mitigation. As you can see at the very bottom on Image 1, very few metrics are focused on Business impact and ROI of privacy initiatives.

>> BUT <<  the problem of online privacy remains

TOMORROW: Evolution – companies have started to realize that we need to evolve privacy from compliance lens to a more business performance perspective. Several panels noted the evolution of privacy as trust in products and services companies offer to clients and end-consumers. Trust is the ultimate outcome of the privacy program (Image 2 and 3). As a result, it was interesting to hear the evolution of Chief Privacy Officers into Chief Trust Officers across various organizations (Image 4)

>> SO <<  the solution for online privacy

NOT-SO-DISTANT FUTURE: Path forward – several attendees agree that companies ‘just need to build a better software’. But the idea how to do it is less clear and not-fully aligned with internal priorities. Very few companies have implemented Privacy-by-Design principles since they drive development time and cost up. Several tech vendors have started offering various dev tools (Privacy-as-Code) and hosted engineering meetups. Unfortunately, they were poorly attended due the audience profile for this conference.

While the path forward is indeed a bit murky, I see a tremendous opportunity for us to build *simple and intuitive* tools that embed privacy-by-design. I attended a session on PbyD implementation in healthcare where they shared a questionnaire we could use as an inspiration for future client discussions (PbyD 1 and 2).
